# Rick Wang, Zhang CSCI4211, 14/11/2021

Java,simulator.java,,simulator.class

Use "javac simulator.java" to complie.

Use "java simulator" to run the program. 

# Description:
## In the case of stop_and_wait:
The state in A is initialized to "WAIT_LAYER", estimated_rtt is 30, and seq is 0. 

When A_output is called from layer5, the funtion first check if the state is "WAIT_LAYER5", if true, the fucntion put the msg and seq in a pcaket and send the packet to side B, then the funtion starts the timer, and change the state to "WAIT_ACK". 

When a packet is received from side B, A_input funtion first check if the state is "WAIT_ACK", if true, the function check the ACK and checksum from the received packet, if everything is correct, the function removes the timer, increment the seq, and change the state to "WAIT_LAYER5". If the function received a NACK, the funciton resend the same packet again and restart the timer. If the funtion received a wrong ACK, the funtion does nothing.

When A_handle_timer funtion is called, the function resend the last packet and restart the timer.
When B side receives a packet from A, the B_input function first check the seqnum of the packet with expected seq, if they match, the funtion checks the checksum of the packet, if the checksum is not corrupt, the function send seq+1 as the ACK, send the payload to layer5, and increment the expected seq. If the checksum is corrupted, the funtion send seq*-1 as the NACK to A side. If the seqnum does not match the expected value, the function send the last seq back to the A side.

## In the case of GO_BACK_N:
I'm using linkedlist as the buffer instead of the circular buffer becuse linkedlist is easier for me to understand in this case. Estimated_rtt is 30, window size is 8.

When side A receives a msg, the A_output function first check if the buffer is still within the window size, if not, the funtion does nothing, otherwise the function add the packet to the last spot in the linkedlist, send the packet to side B and update the seq. In order to just use one timer, the function will only start the timer if the packet is at snedBase.

When A_input received a packet from B side, the function checks if the ACK is within the window and if the checksum is corrupted. If true, the function removes all the packet that before the ACK and within the window starts from the first one in the linkedlist. Then, the function update the sendBase to ACK+1, and restart the timer for the sendBase.

When A_HANDLE_TIMER is called, t he function resend all the packet in the buffer in order, and restart the timer for sendBase.

When B_input is called, the function checks the checksum and seq, if both are correct, the function send the payload to layer5 and update the expected seq.

# Test cases
## Stop_and Wait
simulator parameter for testing:

``` java
    lossprob= (float) 0.5; // probability that a packet is dropped
    corruptprob= (float) 0.5; // probability that one bit is packet is flipped
    Lambda=1000; // arrival rate of messages from layer 5
    nsimmax=20; // number of msgs to generate, then stop
```

Result:
```
recieving aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
recieving bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb
recieving cccccccccccccccccccc
recieving dddddddddddddddddddd
recieving eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee
recieving ffffffffffffffffffff
recieving gggggggggggggggggggg
recieving hhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh
recieving iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
recieving jjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjj
recieving kkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkk
recieving llllllllllllllllllll
recieving mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm
recieving nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
recieving oooooooooooooooooooo
recieving pppppppppppppppppppp
recieving qqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqq
recieving rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr
recieving ssssssssssssssssssss
The simulator has sent enough packets. Simulation end
```

If the packet from A side is lost, the B side won't do anything and the timer on the A side will go off and A will resend last packet. If the packet is corrupted, B side will send NACK to A side and A side will resend that packet without wating for timeout. If the ACK from B side is lost or corrupted, the A side will timeout and resend last packet.

## GO_BACK_N:
simulator parameter for testing:

``` java
    lossprob= (float) 0.5; // probability that a packet is dropped
    corruptprob= (float) 0.5; // probability that one bit is packet is flipped
    Lambda=100; // arrival rate of messages from layer 5
    nsimmax=25; // number of msgs to generate, then stop
```

Results
```
    recieving aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
    recieving bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb
    recieving cccccccccccccccccccc
    recieving dddddddddddddddddddd
    recieving eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee
    recieving ffffffffffffffffffff
    recieving gggggggggggggggggggg
    recieving hhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh
    recieving iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
    recieving jjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjj
    recieving kkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkk
    recieving llllllllllllllllllll
    recieving mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm
    recieving nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
    recieving oooooooooooooooooooo
    recieving pppppppppppppppppppp
    recieving qqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqq
    recieving rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr
    recieving ssssssssssssssssssss
    recieving tttttttttttttttttttt
    The simulator has sent enough packets. Simulation end
```

I reduced Lambda to make sure there could be multiple packet in the buffer. If the packet from A is lost or corrupted, B will resend last ACK, and won't do anything for the lost packet and any packet following the lost packet. There is only one timer for the entire window which starts for the first packet in the window, so A will timeout and resend all the packet in the buffer.
